# Working Document of the Traffic Simulator

# 1. Problem Specification
The problem is to simulate simplified city traffic conditions which involves only three elements: roads, traffic lights
and vehicles. The program is consist of a GUI Java Programming and backend application logic programming, and will be
used by users via the front-end. User would be able to create road layouts and input other parameters via the front-end
interface, and then run and observe the simulation and summary statistics on-the-fly. The backend Java code would execute
the logic and rules as defined in the requirement.

# 2. Problem Decomposition
The problem can be conceptually decomposed into three main classes: vehicles, road and traffic lights, as the UML shown.
These three elements are interdependent, as vehicles run on roads and traffic lights sit on the start or end of roads,
and traffic lights decide if the vehicles can move forward.

# 3. Class & Method Design
# Road
In this case, the roads are simplified as single lane roads. And all traffic will only move in a single direction.

Attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road
- *speedLimit* – the maximum speed that vehicles on that road may travel at.
- *length* – the number of segments the road is comprised of and the physical space it occupies.
- *width* – the minimum width of the road, each lane is at least as wide as the breadth of the bus.
- *startLocation* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road begins.
- *endLocation* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road ends.
- *connectedRoadss* – all of the roads that this road is physically connected to.
- *lightsOnRoad* – all the traffic lights that are on the ends this road.
- *vehiclesOnRoad* – all of the vehicles that are currently traveling on this road.

The for the first version of the program the speed will be constant and set to 1. Meaning the car will only be able to
move a single position each turn making it easier deal with traffic lights and the ends of roads. The length of the
road will be variable depending of user input. Roads will interreact with other roads by being connected to them,
creating a very basic intersection with only one option for the car to take. Cars will move along the road from the
starting position (1) to the end position, that depends on the road’s length. Traffic lights can be placed at only the
end position of the road.

# Traffic Light
The traffic light class will represent a simple red or green traffic light.
Attributes:
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each traffic light.
- *state* - the colour the ligth is displaying, either RED or GREEN.
- *position* - where the traffic light is located on the road.
- *roadAttachedToo* - the road that the light is attached to.

The traffic light will operate, using the operate() method. Randomly changing from green to red. This opperation will 
be based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be placed on a road only at its final position, 
the end of the road, and will interact with cars that are also at that position. If the light is red the cars will stop 
and not move to the next road. If the light is green the cars will continue past and move to the next road.

# Car
The car class will be an object that describes an average size road vehicle. Holding the following attributes; 
- *id* – a unique identifier that will differentiate each car.
- *Length* – the physical space the car occupies longways.
- *Breadth* – the physical space the car occupies widthways, half the cars length.
- *Speed* – how far the car moves for each simulation turn.
- *Position* – where the car is located on a road.
- *Current Road* – the road the car is currently traveling on.

The car will be able to move, using the move() method, within the simulation along a road depending on its speed, 
the speed will be defined by the speed limit of the road the car is traveling on. When the car is in the same position 
as a traffic light it will check its state before moving, if the light is red it will stop, if the light is green it 
will move to the next road. When the cars position is equal to the end of a road and there is no connected road it 
will stop ending the simulation.

# Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of car, describing a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from                 Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

# Motorbike
The motorbike class will be a subclass of car, describing a small road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes from and 
behaviour Car except its length will be defined as being half that of the car’s length.

### Main
This class will have the main() method that will contain the simulation loop.
All the objects needed for the simulation will be created here; creating roads, a car and a traffic light. Locations 
for roads and their connection will also be set here. For this version of the program the user will only have control 
over the lengh of the road and the speed the simulation runs at. The simulation will run, moving the car and operating 
traffic lights, until the car can no longer move and has come to a stop.
